Let's kick things off with something unique and creative:
Custom Image Overlay Charts. In your workbook,
head to the Image Overlay Charts tab. We have basic fundraising data:
dollars raised, goal amount, and percent to goal.
Instead of creating a standard stacked column chart,
we'll integrate custom graphics. I've built two examples:
a thermometer and a thumbs up icon. You can use any graphic you choose.
Just make sure it has a solid opaque background and transparent area
where you want the chart to shine through. Let's insert
a 100% stacked column chart with our data. Format the chart:
remove the title, remove the X axis, make the remaining portion transparent
and give our progress a solid fill color. Now align the chart
with your graphic so 0% and 100% marks line up perfectly.
Remove unnecessary elements like the Y axis and grid lines.
Reduce the gap width to make the series fill the entire chart area.
Now right-click and send the chart behind your graphic.
The chart shines through only where the graphic is transparent.
As you change the fundraising value, the visualization updates
dynamically. It's a simple but creative effect that makes
your dashboards stand out. You can apply this technique
to any graphic with transparent areas to create engaging,
professional-looking data visualizations in Excel.